# Classer | Capstone CS50W


## Overview


This project is a website run by schools for students to view their courses  and homework. First, an administrator would run the website and set up all the accounts, and subjects. Then, teachers would log in using provided credentials, and add courses, and homework assignments. Students will then be able to view those courses and assignments using their accounts. They can also mark individual assignments as "finished" using a checkbox on the website.


## Inspiration


My school uses a similar software called "Pronote". Unfortunately, it is closed source and can be confusing to use for teachers. So, I decided to make a simpler, open source clone of that website.


## Distinctiveness and Complexity
### Distinctiveness


CS50W does not have any projects similar to mine, as mine is neither a frontend for Google, nor an online encyclopedia, nor an e-mail client, nor an e-commerce site, nor a social network.


### Complexity


I think this project is more complex than every other project I've made for CS50W, because it has [^1]:
- 10 models (More than any project)
- 15 URLs (More than any project)
- 377 lines of code in views.py (More than any project)
- 7 templates (More than any project **except Commerce**)
- 3 JSX files totaling 644 lines of code (More than any project)


[^1]: With my implementations, of course.


## File contents


`core/static/classer.png`: Logo for the project (represents how periods are shown)

`core/static/createquiz.js`: JSX file for creating quizzes (used in the teacher dashboard)

`core/static/index.js`: JSX file for listing homework assignments and toggling the "finished" checkmark

`core/static/list.js`: JSX file for listing and deleting periods

`core/static/styles.css`: CSS file for styling periods

`core/templates/create_accounts.html`: Django template for creating accounts from a CSV file

`core/templates/index.html`: Django template for listing grades and quizzes

`core/templates/layout.html`: Django template used as a "root" for every other template

`core/templates/list.html`: Django template for listing periods; extended by `core/templates/index.html` and `core/templates/teacher.html`

`core/templates/login.html`: Django template for logging in. Taken from my other CS50W projects.

`core/templates/quiz.html`: Django template for showing a quiz and its questions

`core/templates/teacher.html`: Django template for the teacher dashboard (adding periods, quizzes, and homework).

`core/models.py`: File for all the Django models

`core/views.py`: File for defining all the views

`.gitignore`: Generated by <https://gitignore.io>

`db.sqlite3`: SQLite 3 database

`README.md`: Markdown file with information on this project

`requirements.txt`: Dependencies to install


## Running the application

Note: You will have to have docker and docker-compose installed.

```bash
docker-compose build
docker-compose up -d
```

## Setting up

This app has a pretty complicated setup process.

Note: If you want a preconfigured database, rename `preconf.sqlite3` to `db.sqlite3`. This will add preconfigured accounts, divisions, and subjects.

The accounts will have these credentials:

|              | Admin | Student     |
|--------------|-------|-------------|
| **Username** | admin | student1    |
| **Password** | cs50w | password123 |

If you choose to do this, skip the "Setting up" steps

### Migrating

Run bash on the container.

```bash
docker-compose exec web /bin/bash
```

Migrate and create an admin user with credentials of your choosing.

```bash
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Exit bash.
```bash
exit
```

### Adding a "Teacher" group

First, visit <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/> with a modern web browser (Tested browsers: Chrome and Edge).

Log in with the credentials that you chose for the admin user

Click on "Groups" in the sidebar.

You should now be at <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/auth/group/>

Click the "Add group" button.

Type in "Teacher" for the name and don't add any permissions.

Click "Save".

#### Adding yourself to that group

Click on "Users" in the sidebar.

Click on the admin user you created.

In "Groups", select the "Teacher" group.

Click "Save".


### Adding a division

Click on "Divisions" in the sidebar.

You should now be at <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/core/division/>

Click "Add division".

Add a name of your choosing. This should be the name of a grade: "9th grade" for example.

Click "Save".


### Adding a subject

Click "Subjects" in the sidebar.

You should now be at <http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/core/subject/>

Click "Add subject".

Set a name of your choosing, for example: "Technology" or "English".

For the color, select a light color, for example: #C1FCFF (sky blue). This is purely cosmetic, and only affects how a period is displayed.

Set "Teacher" to the admin account that you created.

### Adding accounts

While logged in with the admin account, visit <http://127.0.0.1:8000/create-accounts/>

Paste in a CSV file like this one

```csv
username,email,password,division
student1,student1@school.org,password123,9th grade
```

* "username" can be anything.
* "email" can be any email.
* "password" can be anything.
* "division" needs to be the division that you created in the setup.

**Memorize the credentials**, you will need them later.


## Using the app

Log in using the admin account, and visit <http://127.0.0.1:8000/teacher/>

You can add periods, quizzes, and homework.

You can also delete a period by clicking on it.

Log in using the student account that you created using the csv file.

You can take quizzes, view periods, and homework

## Real-world usage

A real-world configuration would look like this:
* The admin account would be the school IT
* The teacher accounts would be manually created by the school IT
* The student accounts would be imported from a database in CSV format
